Add EIP-5478: CREATE2COPY Opcode (#5478)
ethereum/EIPs: eip-5478.md

---
eip: 5478
title: Reducing the gas cost of contract creation with existing code
author: Qi Zhou (@qizhou)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-5478-reducing-the-gas-cost-of-contract-creation-with-existing-code/10419
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: Core
created: 2022-08-17
requires: 1014, 2929
---

## Abstract

> Adding a new opcode, `CREATE3`, that is identical to `CREATE2` but with potentially much lower gas cost by accepting an additional argument `existing_contract_address` that already stored the code of the new contract.

Reviewer: What do you think of using a more descriptive name, like, for example, `CREATECOPY`?

Author: Sound good!  I would like to use `CREATE2COPY` because this is the copy version for `CREATE2`, but we may `CREATECOPY` as the copy version for `CREATE` in the future.

## Motivation

This EIP aims to reduce the smart contract creation cost of account abstraction (AA) contracts that have identical code.

The major cost of creating an AA contract is the contract creation cost, especially data gas. For example, creating an AA contract with 10,000 bytes will consume 2,000,000 data gas. Considering the code for each user's AA contract is the same, `CREATE3` can reduce the data gas cost to 2600 (cold account) or even 100 (warm account) if the contract code already exists in the local storage.

## Specification

### Parameters

| Constant                  | Value            |
| ------------------------- | ---------------- |
| `FORK_BLKNUM`             | TBD              |
| `CREATE_DATA_GAS_PER_BYTE`          | 200            |
| `COLD_ACCOUNT_ACCESS_COST` | 2600 |
| `WARM_ACCOUNT_ACCESS_COST` | 100 |

> If `block.number >= FORK_BLKNUM`, we add a new opcode (`CREATE3`) at `0xf6`, which takes 5 stack arguments: `endowment`, `memory_start`, `memory_length`, `salt`, `existing_contract_address`. `CREATE3` behaves identically to `CREATE2` (`0xf5` as defined in [EIP-1014](./eip-1014.md)), except that the code hash of the creating contract MUST be the same as that of `existing_contract_address`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If `block.number >= FORK_BLKNUM`, a new opcode is added (`CREATE3`) at `0xf6`, which takes 5 stack arguments: `endowment`, `memory_start`, `memory_length`, `salt`, `existing_contract_address`. `CREATE3` behaves identically to `CREATE2` (`0xf5` as defined in [EIP-1014](./eip-1014.md)), except that the code hash of the creating contract MUST be the same as that of `existing_contract_address`.
```
Recommended: no first person

`CREATE3` has the same `gas` schema as `CREATE2`, but replacing the data gas from `CREATE_DATA_GAS_PER_BYTE * CONTRACT_BYTES` to the gas cost of `EXTCODEHASH` opcode, which is `COLD_ACCOUNT_ACCESS_COST` if the `existing_contract_address` is first-time accessed in the transaction or `WARM_ACCOUNT_ACCESS_COST` if `existing_contract_address` is already in the access list according to [EIP-2929](./eip-2929.md).

> If the code of the contract returned from the init code differs from that of `existing_contract_address`, we will fail the creation with the error "mismatched contract creation code with existing code", and will burn all gas for the contract creation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the code of the contract returned from the init code differs from that of `existing_contract_address`, the creation fails with the error "mismatched contract creation code with existing code", and will burn all gas for the contract creation.
```
Recommended: no first person

---
eip: 5478
title: Reducing the gas cost of contract creation with existing code
author: Qi Zhou (@qizhou)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-5478-reducing-the-gas-cost-of-contract-creation-with-existing-code/10419
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: Core
created: 2022-08-17

> requires: 1014, 2929

Reviewer 2: Does this require EIP-1014? I don't see any references.

Author: Yes, it depends on EIP-1014, which introduce 'CREATE2'.  Let me add a directly reference in the EIP.

Author: A direct reference is added at https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/5478/files#diff-750b1a09c7ed6095f759be1ff9b7f67e73a7a509aa58d660ff6dff631814a5c9R34

---

## Abstract

> Adding a new opcode (CREAET3) that is identical to CREATE2 with potentially much lower gas cost by accepting an additional argument `existing_contract_address` that already stored the code of the new contract.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Adding a new opcode, `CREATE3`, that is identical to `CREATE2` but with potentially much lower gas cost by accepting an additional argument `existing_contract_address` that already stored the code of the new contract.
```

## Motivation

> The EIP aims to reduce the smart contract creation cost of account abstraction (AA) contracts that have identical code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This EIP aims to reduce the smart contract creation cost of account abstraction (AA) contracts that have identical code.
```

## Specification

### Parameters

| Constant                  | Value            |
| ------------------------- | ---------------- |
| `FORK_BLKNUM`             | TBD              |
| `CREATE_DATA_GAS_PER_BYTE`          | 200            |
| `COLD_ACCOUNT_ACCESS_COST` | 2600 |
| `WARM_ACCOUNT_ACCESS_COST` | 100 |

> Adds a new opcode (CREATE3) at 0xf6, which takes 5 stack arguments: `endowment`, `memory_start`, `memory_length`, `salt`, `existing_contract_address`. CREATE3 behaves identically to CREATE2 (0xf5), except that the code hash of the creating contract MUST be the same as that of `existing_contract_address`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Adds a new opcode (`CREATE3`) at `0xf6`, which takes 5 stack arguments: `endowment`, `memory_start`, `memory_length`, `salt`, `existing_contract_address`. `CREATE3` behaves identically to `CREATE2` (`0xf5`), except that the code hash of the creating contract MUST be the same as that of `existing_contract_address`.
```

Reviewer 3: Also consider change `0xf6` to an `0x<OPCODE_PH>` placeholder and only specify OPTCODE_PH before a EIP determines the FORK_BLKNUM

> The CREATE3 has the same gas schema as CREATE2, but replacing the data gas from `CREATE_DATA_GAS_PER_BYTE` * `CONTRACT_BYTES` to the gas cost of `EXTCODEHASH` opcode, which is `COLD_ACCOUNT_ACCESS_COST` if the `existing_contract_address` is first-time accessed in the transaction or `WARM_ACCOUNT_ACCESS_COST` if `existing_contract_address` is already in the access list according to EIP-2929.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`CREATE3` has the same gas schema as `CREATE2`, but replacing the data gas from `CREATE_DATA_GAS_PER_BYTE` * `CONTRACT_BYTES` to the gas cost of `EXTCODEHASH` opcode, which is `COLD_ACCOUNT_ACCESS_COST` if the `existing_contract_address` is first-time accessed in the transaction or `WARM_ACCOUNT_ACCESS_COST` if `existing_contract_address` is already in the access list according to [EIP-2929](./eip-2929.md).
```
Gas schema? Is that correct? (I legitimately don't know)

Author: That is a term I borrowed from Vitalik's EIP-1014 (CREATE2).

If the code of the contract returned from the init code differs from that of `existing_contract_address`, we will fail the creation with the error "mismatched contract creation code with existing code", and will burn all gas for contract creation.

## Rationle

> The major cost of creating an AA contract is the contract creation cost, especially data gas. For example, creating an AA contract with 10,000 bytes will consume 2,000,000 data gas.  Considering the code for each user's AA contract is the same, CREATE3 can reduce the data gas cost to 2600 (cold account) or even 100 (warm account) if the contract code already exists in the local storage.

Reviewer 2: This reads like motivation, not rationale.

Rationale explains why specific values or properties were chosen. In this case, it would be primarily explaining the choices for the gas costs.

Author: Thanks for the comment.  I have moved this part to Motivation.

## Security Considerations

> No security considerations were found.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Needs discussion.
```

Reviewer 3: It seems unnecessarily to change to `Needs discussion`.

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).

> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
